now Chipping doesn't have to be that
hard in these next three videos I'm
going to share with you some of the real
secrets to making chipping easy people
have told me time and time again this
has helped them tremendously on their
short game and I can't wait to share it
with you let's go and get started oh
that makes you so frustrated you just
want to snap all your clubs into you
feel like when you get over that
important chip shot maybe late in the
round to win a whole win a match or just
to play a really good round put up a
good score you start to chunk them you
start to thin them the hands get really
tight everything gets jittery and shaky
and quick when you really want to be
smooth and confident over the ball it
just doesn't seem like that's possible
well there's actually some really common
instruction and if you follow this it
works really good but only for a certain
type of chip I'm gonna talk about what
type of chip that is when you can use
that type of shot and how if you try to
apply that same technique to all your
chips and pitches it can really destroy
your confidence in your game you get
really handsy and you get really jittery
over when those shots matter the most by
the end of this video if you follow
these steps you're gonna feel really
confident over the ball you're gonna
know that you can step up to any chip
shot and knock it close let's go and get
started all right so what's this shot
that only works sometimes it can really
hurt your other shots and that is what I
call the putt chip and that's where the
idea is that we're gonna use her putting
stroke to hit this chip shot there's a
variety of ways that we have to do this
but this actually works really well if
we do this really close to the grain so
if I'm only you know 20 or 30 feet from
this hole it can be really easy just to
putt the ball up there and be pretty
consistent with it so how does this work
exactly well number one you want to take
your putting stance you want to make
this feel like a putting stroke so as I
set up this golf ball I'm gonna take the
the width of my stance I would normally
if I'm putting the second piece here is
instead of having my normal grip and
having the shaft kinda on an angle here
I'm gonna raise this club up a little
bit so now the toe is down the heel is a
little bit up on the ground and what
this does is this takes this leading
edge of this or the the flat part of the
sole of the club and it tilts it up this
way now that's much less likely to grab
in some of the grass
if only my toe is touching it's going to
kind of brush through the grass it's
gonna have much less chance of getting
stuck in digging that kind of
so with those hands up that helps it to
glide through the turf a little bit
easier a third thing here I want to use
a fairly low lofted Club so I'm not
using a sand wedge a pitching wedge
anything like that I'm really using like
a 7-iron 8-iron 9-iron somewhere around
an air to get these little putt chips
and then finally I'm really locking my
legs when you putt one thing that all
great putters have in common is they
don't really move their lower body so as
I'm making this little chip putt I'm not
moving my knees at all they stay
perfectly still you're locking in your
hands and arms you're kind of getting a
little forward shaft lean and you can
kind of imagine all this being locked in
and all I'm doing is I go back and forth
that stays locked in I rock it back and
forth and that's gonna be just like a
putting stroke only we're chipping off
the green now that can be really handy
these are actually pretty easy shots
it's not that tough when you're only 20
or 30 feet away but there is some
problems with this so as you start to
get a little farther from the green
you're not gonna be able to hit them as
close doing this and here's the reason
why when I put if you think about even a
pretty long putt maybe I take my putter
back to here that would be a pretty long
putt as I'm coming back and through
that's about all I feel comfortable with
keeping my knees still keeping my body
still and still hitting this putt well
if I get rid of this 7-iron and maybe I
need to hit it over something or I need
the ball to check up a little bit faster
all of a sudden I switched to my sand
wedge or lob wedge and I do this same
technique the baldest isn't gonna go
very far
oh it's that bumping run shot or that
locked-in putting stroke
idea works really good when I have to
make a short stroke so if I'm only
taking it back a couple feet and taking
it through a couple feet like I would be
with a putter I can stay really still
with my lower body I can stay locked in
with my upper body I can take a 7-iron
an 8-iron a hybrid
just get the ball bumping up there and
it's really easy but at some point we
get far enough away from the green or we
have trouble in the way imagine there's
a bunker here in our way that we had to
hit it over that bunker to where that
little short bump and run locked in
putting stroke style this isn't going to
work and if we try to have that same
idea and have that locked-in approach
that putting type approach
and we try to make that work when we're
farther away everything falls apart so
now if I'm farther away here and I have
my sandwich let's imagine that there is
a bunker or there is rough or something
where I have to carry the ball on the
green here and now all of a sudden I'm
trying to still keep my lower body still
I'm trying to lock everything up here at
the top seal I just can't make that
happen if I really use the technique the
right way the ball won't go far enough
so what you end up doing is you end up
getting pretty jerky with the hands and
wrists because you're trying to get more
energy into it and now all of a sudden
we end up with this kind of mismatched
you know jerky shabby type stroke that
can easily shoot it over the green or be
well short of the green I said ah let's
jump in on what the pros are doing the
free things
now here the main difference one style
the putting style everything is locked
in we're trying to control this style
we're loosening everything up so if you
pay attention to my knees and what
you'll see with all great chippers
they're gonna let these knees pivot so
I'm not trying to lock those in I'm
letting those flow is always gonna just
toss the golf ball up on the green so if
I do this watch my knees here first and
then we'll get into the details so here
I'm gonna let everything turn on through
my body crepe momentum and now I can
easily just chip a ball up there it's
not very tough at all I'm letting my
body create the momentum so with this
one and one of the reasons that this is
so much better with your hands and arms
and you don't feel like you're Jabby as
I'm letting my body rotate my hips are
rotating my chest is rotating and that's
creating the momentum if I just hold
this club very softly in my hands now
all of a sudden it's creating momentum
that's going to hit the ball if I try to
lock that in I have to create that speed
with my hands and arms and things get a
little crazy so that's the first key
there in order to do that I'm gonna set
up with my heels almost touching you see
a lot of great chippers doing this and
I'm also gonna open my feet a little bit
toward the target that makes things
easier for me to open up and pivot on
through this shot that's gonna allow me
to use my body to create that momentum
I'm also instead of gonna locking my
wrists in and keeping that really tight
and rigid with my hands higher I'm gonna
go ahead and slip my hands hang freely
and let my wrist stay really soft as I'm
doing this because I'm going back and
through he could see my knees pivot and
everything else just kind of goes along
for the ride I get a little bit of wrist
action I get a little bit
rs.10 just completely fine I'm not
trying to lock it in and got it I'm
letting momentum of my body create that
speed create that momentum so you can
see there it's really easy to hit these
clean when you let your body do the work
so those are the main keys there when
we're hitting the the putt type shot
that's completely fine if you're really
close to the green and you can make this
stroke that just goes back to here and
back to here at some point that's not
going to be a big enough stroke or at
some point we're not going to be able to
roll the ball across the ground because
there's a bunker in the way there's
rough in the way and we're gonna have to
make a bigger stroke at that point when
you make that bigger stroke instead of
trying to lock things in free things up
ankles close together feet open toward
the target my body creates the momentum
and my wrists stay nice and loose
alright guys got a really cool video for
you this is gonna be those low super
spin wedge shots we can start these out
about 40 yards anything closer than that
and it's not going to be able to get
enough speed to get the spin and we can
go all the way back to about 7 or 80
yards so here we're kind of on the front
end of it it's not gonna spin like crazy
from this distance but you'll definitely
see it check up and I got an awesome
drill for you to really get the filling
to make this shot happen nice time after
time the first piece is we got to get
open with our body so if I'm setting up
here you'll notice it as I come on
through my body is opening up everything
keeps on rotating through toward the
target and I get a nice you know clean
crisp sound on this so that one came out
really well probably could have been a
little lower
you saw it try to check up on the green
up there but the big key there was I got
my body opening up two things excuse me
two reasons it's important number one if
my body opens up I can keep all my
momentum going through the shot I'm not
going to decelerate and kind of cast at
the ball I'm gonna keep everything
accelerating on through they're not
gonna be very aggressive through this
it's gonna help me to get more speed the
more speed I get the more spin and the
more solid the shot is going to be the
second piece is as I open up now my Ford
shaft lean this comes naturally the more
my body opens the more my shaft is going
to get forward if I have my body closed
no way I can get forward shaft lean I'm
gonna get that kind of chicken wing if
you see yourself chicken wing a little
bit that's what's happening the body's
too closed and
to push through the arms I got to get
the body to open up and that's gonna
allow me to accelerate through there so
it's a combination of opening the body
and having forward shaft lean with that
good spin those three things kind of
going together so what's going to get
these really clean shots I've got an
awesome cheat for you
so sometimes it's a little difficult for
people to get this right away I'm gonna
give you a cheat we're let's go ahead
and set up with a normal shot here I'm
gonna take my left foot and open it up
about 45 degrees
now I'm gonna match that with my right
foot so I'm basically just pointing my
body here 45 degrees open I'm gonna take
my normal grip and then I'm gonna set
back up to this golf ball so what that
does now is it forces me to open up my
body that's gonna force my hands to go
forward and that's gonna be a lot easier
to hit this kind of low spinning shot
you see there no problem at all to get
that to go right to the flag I'ma be
very consistent with this so I'd
recommend going in and do 15 or 20 of
these a couple little feelings here when
I'm doing this I'm feeling like I'm just
going to toss a ball straight to the
hole so my body is opening up I just
feel like I'm tossing the ball right to
the hole you're not going to see a lot
of face rotation on this club so it's
not opening and closing it's pretty much
staying toward the target the entire
time another feeling here is if I'm
setting up square I'm almost feeling
like I'm swinging this way kind of 45
degrees out to the right so I'm almost
on a plane of glass going this way the
difference is as my body opens up now
now that's gonna be squared of the
target so I'm kind of swinging inside
out help cut that one just a hair heavy
there but I'm kind of swinging inside
out but it's because my body is opening
up that makes it square so once we get
comfortable with that now all we need to
do is the same thing they're setting up
with our normal stance so I'm going to
set up my feet pretty square this time
they're close together my left foots a
little bit open but not nearly as
exaggerated as the last few now when I
come through I'm gonna have that same
sensation to my body's opening up in the
forward shaft lean and I'm gonna hit a
really nice clean crisp shot right at
the target if I do that Oh almost made
it then I can get everything to keep on
moving on through so try that out do the
cheap first get familiar with that if
you like that you just keep doing it if
you struggle or after you get the hang
of it and you feel good with that try to
set up more square and then man it makes
things really easy to happen so best
luck guys hit those low spinners from 40
to 70 yards it's gonna be a lot of fun
chipping can be extremely easy I mean if
we can take a ball and toss it up toward
this hole and get it pretty close to the
hole consistently then you can chip
pretty well I mean it's really this not
that hard the hard thing or we can make
it as hard as we want to if we follow a
few pieces of advice that I think can
lock us up to get us to be really tight
we'll start chunking we'll start
thinning we'll start guiding it we'll
start trying to use our hands way too
much in the chipping stroke and we're
really it's not gonna be very consistent
so let's make chipping easy I'm gonna
give you the real secrets the real keys
so that you feel like you can just get
up and down all the time let's go and
get started right so let's make chipping
easy now you notice if I ask you to toss
this golf ball to the hole what you
would do is you naturally start to take
a step you'd open up you let your arm
kind of have this free-flowing feel to
it you really wouldn't try to got it the
last thing that you would do is kind of
lock in all your angles get everything
perfectly straight get your body to stop
moving
only hinge from one angle and then try
to guide the ball up there at least if
you're gonna be any good you wouldn't do
that if you try to do that you'd
probably end up you know throwing the
golf ball ten feet in front of you or
hitting yourself in the shoulder with it
or something like that so whenever we
try to control things we actually lose
control when you look at something very
natural like a tossing motion you're
gonna be free-flowing again those legs
are gonna move your body's gonna move
you're not trying to guide it up there
same thing happens when you're chipping
when I'm chipping what I want to do here
is I want to get my knees to move I want
my knees to rock back and forth
that's gonna allow me to feel like I
have a free-flowing motion here and I
can really chip very easily the last
thing I want to do is to lock my knees
in keep everything very still lock my
arms in and I'm liable when I do this if
I set up to a golf ball then try to lock
everything in and go back and three I'm
liable to chunk it and not have any feel
at all my hands are tight
I feel very anxious over the top of the
golf ball when I'm trying to limit all
my rotation so if you imagine your right
knee and your left knee I want to have
these pivot back and through and that's
gonna make it a little bit more natural
a little bit more like a
tossing motion and you give up a little
bit of control of your body or you give
up a little bit of trying to control
your body and you actually gain a lot of
control while you're doing this so
you'll notice as I do these I'm gonna
let my hips or about my knees my hips my
arms my shoulders all that kind of be
free-flowing
and then you'll see that that's
naturally gonna get that ball to pop
right up they're almost made that one
but you're not gonna feel like you try
to tighten this up so that's the very
first key there keep those knees moving
let those rock back and forth and that's
going to help you to have a lot more
feel and touch when you're hitting these
chip shots piece number two is probably
one of the most common things I see
people get wrong and that's trying to
figure out where you're gonna hit the
ground in order to be a great chipper
we're going to want to hit the ground in
the ball roughly at the same time now I
could try to place the ball a lot of
times you'll hear people say I'll put
the ball way back in your stance well
that's gonna cause some problems if I
put the ball way back in my stance now
in order to hit this golf ball I'm gonna
have to be hitting down into the ball if
I do that a little bit too much now all
of a sudden I'm chopping down on the
ground very easy to chunk the golf ball
if I place the ball too far forward in
my stance well now it's gonna be tough
for me to really flight that down and
get some forward shaft lean here's a
great way to just make it as easy as
possible I want you to go to set up to
an imaginary golf ball here close your
eyes and then swing back and forth 10-15
times so I'm gonna close my eyes here
I'm going to start Bob not even hardly
touching the ground at all and then I'm
gonna get to where I'm rushing the
ground consistently in the same spot so
I don't really don't know where I'm
hitting the golf or hitting the ground
at all right now I'm just making my
natural motion and seeing what's
happened now when I open my eyes and
look down I can see there's a divot
there if I take this golf ball and I put
that just right where the divot starts
or just in front of where the divot
starts so I can see the divot very the
very first piece of grass that I'm
roughing up is here and then my divot
comes up there I want to place that just
in front of the first piece of grass
that I touched that way when my club
comes down and touches the grass that's
going to be right where I'm hitting the
golf ball so here I haven't moved my
stance I haven't done anything different
I'll just let my natural swing take over
instead of trying to force something
into your swing just close your eyes
make some swings figure out where you're
hitting the ground and then put the ball
there and that's going to make it really
easy to make ball first Conte
every single town again hit a pretty
good chip shot there and made some good
contact I'm just using my natural stroke
when you when you find out where that is
kind of notice where that is in
relationship to your feet and then go up
to the next golf ball pull it in use the
same placement relation in the
relationship to your feet and then
you're gonna go ahead hit the next one
and you'll notice you're making a lot
more ball first contact a lot more clean
contact when you do it this way now last
piece is I need to keep my eyes pretty
centered to be able to hit this ball
consistently now what's happening is if
my eyes stay centered and what I'm gonna
do is I'm going to put a little bit more
weight on my left side I'm gonna feel
like my left hip is over my left ankle
my left shoulder is over my my left
ankle my chest is a little forward and
now my eyes are just kind of on the
inside of my left foot now as I rotate
back and through you let those knees
pivot you'll notice how my eyes don't
move around a lot if I was to draw a
line down from my eyes of the golf ball
I don't want that line to move I don't
want to go like this and come back and
through I don't want to lift up and see
where the balls going to early that's
going to make it really inconsistent
when I'm hitting this golf ball and the
reason is my eyes are what's determining
you heard that the idea of hand-eye
coordination
if my eyes are really stable I have them
locked in on where I'm gonna hit this
golf ball I start moving around
essentially what's happening is
somebody's grabbing this golf ball and
they're moving the golf ball around
because I'm trying to figure out where I
am in relationship to the golf ball so I
have to keep eyes as stable as possible
when I'm doing this so imagine that I
had a line coming up from the center of
my left ankle let's gonna go through the
center of my hip and into my my shoulder
kind of inside of my shoulder I'm gonna
let that rock back and through and stay
stable on that line the entire way I
don't want that line to be moving around
a lot or I'm gonna be inconsistent same
thing with my eyes I'm locked into the
golf ball until I come through contact I
don't want my eyes moving around a lot
I'm gonna pivot back and through my eyes
aren't gonna move that's the only part
that you want to keep stable the rest of
it is free-flowing in natural you notice
I can move my body here back and forth
but my eyes are locked in they're not
really moving around very much the same
thing you want to happen in your in your
chipping stroke that's gonna make a lot
easier to make solid contact now we
don't want to stop here and this
we talked about the basics of getting
some rhythm and getting some consistent
contact we want to build on that and
become a chipping master that way we can
just set up the golf ball chip it and
know it's gonna get close to the hole
I've got a great bonus video to help
build on what we talked about here today
to help you master that chipping all you
need to do is click the card that pops
up on your screen or the link down below
in the description you're gonna be able
to make that crisp clean contact contact
with the golf ball day in and day out
well let's go ahead and get started
pitch shot could be anywhere from right
by the green all the way back to
probably 50 or 60 yards or so and that's
what you're gonna want to do when you
want to get a little bit more spin and
get the ball a little bit more up in the
air we're gonna go ahead and let the
wrist set a little bit more have a
little bit more Club action get the ball
to go a little higher in the air with a
little bit more spin so let me go ahead
and describe what is a good pitch shot
so that you know what you're really
going for I think we got to start from
there start from contact so as I make
contact I want to be coming in very
shallow to the ground so I don't want to
be taking much of a divot I don't want
to be hitting down into the ground as
the club releases and we have a flat
spot where the club travels very level
with the ground for five or six inches
on these pitch shots so when that
happens let me go and exaggerate as my
hand is coming down my hands are closer
to the ground as this club gets closer
and closer to the ground my hands move
up as the club moves down now you're
seeing them having this flat spot
you